---
layout: post
title: Cote.js
---

Last weekend (2014-09-27), i attended [JsIst](http://jsist.org/) event. And the
event is very impressive for me. There are lots of interesting subject and i met
lots of new friends. You can find presentations on event
[website](http://jsist.org/). I have especially been interested in a
presentation, which is "Scaling Node.js Applications with Redis, RabbitMQ and
cote.js" is presented by Armagan Amcalar.

I am new on NodeJS but i was tried to use sockets, cache systems on my projects.
And it is very entertaining subjects for me. I used
[zmq](https://www.npmjs.org/package/zmq) library which is
[Ã˜MQ](http://zeromq.org/) nodejs library. I tried to handle mysql too many
connection error with zmq. I create a tunel and lots of requester connect to a
responder. But I think, ZeroMQ is not very easy to use. I spent lots of time to
install on ubuntu server which is the easiest server to install something.
`apt-get` is complete solution to lots of things. Finally, I installed on my
server but my development machine (local computer) is MacOSx and i did not
install on it. I install vagrant to create a development platform, is the same
my ubuntu server. And all of them is only to start project. I dont want to
extend more. It is exhausting.

In [JSIst presentation](https://github.com/dashersw/node-scale),
[Armagan Amcalar](https://github.com/dashersw/) is talked about how we can
scaling NodeJS application with cote.js, RabbitMQ and Redis. All three are good
tools and solution to scale and lots of things. I decided to try cote.js to my
project because it is zeroconf. And to see, i create a basic example. And
following days, i will try to create a solution for my older mysql too many
connection error. There are an example, is almost the same with mine, on its
own [repository](https://github.com/dashersw/cote#requester) And it is below:

[Prerequests](https://github.com/dashersw/cote#installing) :

    $ sudo npm install cote.js

That's all.

An i am starting use it. Here is my little sample:

There are some mechanism to communicate, i choose request/respond mechanism on
my example. My responder file. You can create a responder basicly. And you
should set a name and you can set a `respondsTo` parameter to separate your
answers to many responder or to merge your responds to a responder. I use one
responder to many requester, to handle all requests from one source.

    // responder.js

    var Responder = require('cote').Responder;
    var responder_counter = 0;

    var randomResponder = new Responder({
        name: 'counterRep', // You can use this parameter separate your responds.
        respondsTo: ['counterRequest']
    });

    randomResponder.on('counterRequest', function(req, cb) {
        var answer = responder_counter++;
        // You can getting data from database and sending to requester
        console.log('request', req.val, 'answering with', answer);
        cb(answer);
    });

The below is one of my requester. In my requester, i am getting data from
responder and process it and sending somewhere etc. My other requester is the
same on my example, i changed only time interval value. It is 100ms for
requester2.js file.

    // requester1.js

    var Requester = require('cote').Requester;

    var Request = new Requester({
        name: 'counterReq',
        requests: ['counterReq']
    });

    Request.on('ready', function() {
        var counter = 0;
        setInterval(function() {
            var req = {
                type: 'counterRequest',
                val: counter++
            };

            Request.send(req, function(res) {
                // Process data and do someting
                console.log('request', req, 'answer', res);
            });
        }, 200);
    });

That's it. I did not configure lots of things. I did not bother on installation
or configuration ip, port, ... etc. I only use it. And they have a cute and
colorful logs on terminal. Here is my screenshot.

![Cote.js Example Screenshot](http://kulekci.net/public/images/cote-js-1.png)

I am added some comments on my basic example. I will added there following days
some codes and try to develop more complex structure.

You can find cote.js on
[https://github.com/dashersw/cote](https://github.com/dashersw/cote).